Stats Descriptions	Description
Might	"Might is the statistic that represents a character's overall strength, and his or her ability to put that strength where it counts.  Characters with a high Might statistic do more damage in combat and are more resilient to Physical and Earth damage."
Intellect	"Intellect represents a character's ability to reason and understand complex, abstract concepts. Maximum spell points for Elemental Magic adepts are based on Intellect. Highly intelligent characters better resist to dispel and mana drain."
Personality	"Personality represents both a character's strength of will and personal charm.  Maximum spell points for Self Magic adepts and resilience to Mind and Spirit damage, curses, dispel and mana drain are based on Personality. More charismatic characters get better prices with Merchant skill."
Endurance	Endurance is a measure of a character's physical toughness and durability. A high Endurance gives a character more hit points and resilience to Water and Body damage as well as more chances to avoid negative conditions inflicted by monsters such as Weak, Asleep, Drunk, Diseased, Unconscious and Aged. 
Accuracy	Accuracy represents a character's precision and hand-eye coordination.  A high Accuracy will allow a character to hit monsters and deal critical damage more frequently in combat and to intercept attempts to steal from him or her. 
Speed	Speed is a measure of how quick a character is.  A high Speed statistic will increase a character's armor class, the rate with which the character recovers from attacks and resilience to Fire and Air damage.
Luck	"Luck has a subtle influence throughout the game, but is most visible in the ability of a character to resist Light and Dark magical attacks and avoid taking (as much) damage from traps."
Hit Points	"Hit Points indicate how much damage your character can sustain before falling unconscious or dying.  A character is unconscious at 0 Hit Points or less, and dies when Hit Points reach -X, where X is current Endurance value.  All Hit Points are restored after 8 hours of uninterrupted rest."
Armor Class	"Armor Class is a measure of the character's protection against physical attacks by armor worn.  HR Class (or Hit Resistance Class) is an amount of damage a character can take without his or her armor being penetrated, which depends on the armor items durability. If armor is penetrated, it's protective effectiveness is reduced by the portion ""(Damage - HR Class) / Damage"".  Phys (or Physical Resistance) is a measure of the character's overall resistance to physical attacks, which includes Might bonus and a slight HR Class bonus to physical resistance."
Spell Points	Spell Points are needed to cast spells.  Every spell has a Spell Point cost that is deducted from this statistic when it's cast.  Spell Points are restored after 8 hours of uninterrupted rest.
Condition	"Condition shows the worst ""effect"" your character is suffering, such as poisoned, diseased, or dead.  Many conditions seriously hurt your character's ability to fight or perform other actions, and should be cured as soon as possible."
Parry, Block and Dodge	"A character has a chance to parry, block or dodge an enemy strike depending on the quality of equipment and/or proficiency in the respective skill. While dodging helps to evade damage of any kind equally well, parrying and blocking is 33% less effective against magic and 66% less effective against energy projectiles."
Age	"Age shows the current age of your character.  The first number is the temporary age number, and the second is your real age.  Certain monsters and magical effects can raise your temporary age above your real age."
Level	Level is a measure of the training your character has gone through.  A high level contributes to hit points and spell points.
Experience	"Experience is a simple indicator of your character's overall understanding of the world.  With enough experience points (and a little gold), you can train your characters in training grounds throughout the land to increase their level and gain skill points to spend on skills."
Attack Bonus	"Attack Bonus is the sum of all factors (skills, spells, Accuracy, etc.) that influence your character's chance to hit monsters with an equipped weapon.  "
Attack Damage	"Attack Damage is the sum of all factors (Might, spells, certain weapon skills at expert or master, etc.) that influence the damage your character does with an equipped weapon."
Shoot Bonus	"Shoot Bonus is the sum of all factors (skill, spells, Accuracy, etc.) that influence your character's chance to hit monsters with an equipped bow."
Shoot Damage	"Shoot Damage is the sum of all factors (spells, weapon bonuses, etc.) that influence the damage your character does with an equipped bow."
Fire	"Fire Resistance represents your character's ability to minimize damage taken from fire based attacks.  Though a high resistance can greatly reduce fire damage, it does not make your character immune. If the incoming damage is higher than base resistance value then the effectiveness of protection drops up to two times, depending on Damage/Base Resistance ratio."
Air	"Air Resistance represents your character's ability to minimize damage taken from air based attacks.  Though a high resistance can greatly reduce air damage, it does not make your character immune. If the incoming damage is higher than base resistance value then the effectiveness of protection drops up to two times, depending on Damage/Base Resistance ratio."
Water	"Water Resistance represents your character's ability to minimize damage taken from water based attacks.  Though a high resistance can greatly reduce water damage, it does not make your character immune. If the incoming damage is higher than base resistance value then the effectiveness of protection drops up to two times, depending on Damage/Base Resistance ratio."
Earth	"Earth Resistance represents your character's ability to minimize damage taken from earth based attacks and avoid being turned to stone.  Though a high resistance can greatly reduce earth damage, it does not make your character immune. If the incoming damage is higher than base resistance value then the effectiveness of protection drops up to two times, depending on Damage/Base Resistance ratio."
Mind	"Mind Resistance represents your character's ability to minimize damage taken from mind based attacks and resist insanity, paralysis and fear.  Though a high resistance can greatly reduce mind damage, it does not make your character immune. If the incoming damage is higher than base resistance value then the effectiveness of protection drops up to two times, depending on Damage/Base Resistance ratio."
Body	"Body Resistance represents your character's ability to minimize damage taken from body based attacks and avoid deadly effects of poisoning, instant death and eradication.  Though a high resistance can greatly reduce body damage, it does not make your character immune. If the incoming damage is higher than base resistance value then the effectiveness of protection drops up to two times, depending on Damage/Base Resistance ratio."
Skill Points	Skill Points are awarded whenever your character trains for a new level.  You can spend Skill Points on your skills at any time.
